Is the destiny of mankind controlled by some transcendental entity or law?
Is it like the hand of God hovering above?
At least it is true...
...that man has no control, even over his own will.
I told you this long ago...
You belong to me.
If you want to free yourself from my control...
...then just as you did before...
Wrest yourself away with your blade!
Goodbye...
Feel no shame about shape.
Weather changes their phrase.
Even mother will show you another way.
So put your glasses on.
Nothing will be wrong.
There's no blame. There's no fame.
It's up to you.
The first words should be found.
Whatever holds you back.
I... ...can... I can get it off.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you want.
I don't know why... Don't know why...
Don't know why you're afraid.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you'd say.
I don't know why... Don't know why... Too late...
It's too late.
Sparks
They look brave enough.
So many plucky fellows have gathered to fight in my tournament!
My lord, the final match will begin at any moment.
He is a mercenary named Valencia, well-known as the Prince of Massacre.
It's been said that he slaughtered...
...over one hundred thirty Midland soldiers during the hundred-year war.
I am quite sure that Valencia will win...
Who is he?
Hey, what are you doing?
Can't you tell?
I'm a challenger.
That's ridiculous!
I'm his rightful opponent!
Hey, don't be such a stiff.
It's supposed to be a festive event.
You look pretty formidable.
What do you say? How about taking me on?
My lord...
Very well, I'll allow it! It's a sideshow before the final bout. Go on then!
Hey, now you're talking!
Even if this is for entertainment, a duel is a duel.
I'll give no quarter!
I wouldn't have it any other way!
Take your stance!
No need, come anytime.
Ridiculous!
Are you telling me you won't even take your stance?
I-I-I yield... Well, well!
That man did it!
Well done, well done.
Now then, would you be interested in serving me?
Needless to say, I'll pay you very well.
Thanks, but I'm not interested in that sort of thing...
My lord... What a shame...
Not to put a man of his caliber to use...
Guts!
Welcome back!
Easy, easy.
I was worried about you...
...because you were gone when I woke up!
But Grandpa Godot was right after all.
He told me that you would come back here for sure!
Sorry, but I need you to fix this again.
Really!
After sitting around and doing nothing for a week...
...you suddenly try your skill in a tournament.
I see...
You fought against a very skilled man this time...
A sword doesn't lie.
This sword tells me everything about both you and your opponent.
Oh, this poor sword of yours...
It's wielded by a man who's blind to his own destiny.
Let me fix the sword, please?
When you're a little older, Erica.
My destiny...
My dream...
Does this sword embody my dream?
Guts!
Here we go!
Okay!
Guts!
I guess it was too much to deal with at once, after all!
Yeah, it was.
This is no dream.
This has always been by my side.
That's right. It's a part of my body.
Through all the pain I could hardly endure...
All those moments when I was sure of my death...
I overcame them all with this sword by my side.
Here's one!
Unforgettable memories... Unforgettable people...
I've sensed them all at sword point.
This sword is proof of my very existence.
Guts!
Ouch!
Come on, stay still!
You are quite reckless.
Godot, why did you become a swordsmith?
We've been a family of swordsmiths for generations.
Do you like it?
I don't know.
You don't know?
Erica likes it because it's fun.
I want to be a swordsmith too!
Hey, be careful.
I've gripped steel before even learning to walk.
I strike...
...the iron lying before me...
...without thinking about whether I like it or not.
I've always strived to improve my skill... To forge even better swords...
But then before I knew it, I became an old man.
Why do I continue striking iron? The truth is I have no idea.
But... there is one certain thing that I do like about it.
Sparks...
I like seeing the sparks...
I'm absorbed by them.
For a moment, I can feel as if my life is sparking before my eyes.
Sparks...
Am I also attracted...
...to sparks?
Light cascading off swords... Tiny sparks...
For as long as my opponents and I have lived...
Our swords crash into our very being, scattering tiny sparks of light...
These sparks are like life itself.
Guts, ready?
Yeah!
You did it!
Guts!
Finally, you did it!
At the end of the day, there's nothing left for me but this.
I wield my sword... not for anyone else, but for myself...
To generate my own sparks, even if it's for a fleeting moment.
Are you leaving?
Yeah, thanks for your help.
After being sheltered for nearly a year, that's all you have to say to me?
Take care of yourself.
Of course I will! I don't need you to tell me.
So long.
Hey...
Don't get yourself killed.
Master Godot!
What's the idea, coming over here so early in the morning?
Do I even have to explain? I'm here to place an order!
An order?
I want you to make as many swords as you can immediately.
Of course, I'll pay you handsomely for this.
What's going on?
Did war break out?
No... We're hunting down bandits!
Hunting bandits?
Those fugitives we've been hearing about...
They're hiding in the mountains just over the border.
I need weapons so I can make some easy money before it's too late.
Fugitives?
You haven't heard?
You neither, master?
Well, no surprise.
You guys live like hermits down here, after all!
Who are they, these bandits on the run?
They were once members of a mercenary band that led a revolt...
...in Windham about a year ago.
A mercenary band?
Yes, I'm told that they are led by a woman with incredible skills.
A woman?
I heard that they also made quite an impact in the hundred-year war.
I don't remember the name though...
...probably the band of something... Band of... Yes!
The Band of the Hawk!
Wait, what did you just say?
Huh?
I'm asking you what you just said!
W-Well...
I said the Band of the Hawk, led by a woman named Casca.
We finally found them... ...the Band of the Hawk.
Damn, they gave us a lot of trouble.
Stop complaining. Remember, they're not going to live past this night!
We'll make sure they get a good night's sleep!
Don't work too hard... You won't be able to keep it up.
Judeau...
I understand your feelings.
But you're essentially the leader of the Band of the Hawk.
Everyone's exhausted because we've been on the run for so long.
At a time like this, we can't have you collapsing too!
I know.
A moment ago, I got a report from our comrades...
...who infiltrated Windham.
According to their report, Griffith is confined in an underground dungeon...
...located at the lowest level of Windham Palace.
Some of them have heard a distant voice from the depths of the prison...
It could be him screaming or moaning.
However...
...the voice has not been heard within this month.
Everyone is exhausted.
We can't live on the run much longer. We've got to hurry!
Believe in them.
You've got to believe in your comrades.
We have no choice but to pool our talents together, every one of us.
Judeau...
Anyways, you should at least get some rest.
You can't organize our mission to rescue Griffith if you are so tired...
You are right... You need to eat and rest.
Yeah...
Judeau...
Thank you.
How's Casca?
Taking a little rest.
She should.
Lately, she hasn't slept at all.
I think she's been doing a fine job.
If she hadn't assumed leadership, by now we'd all be...
You're right. We might not have survived this far...
We've survived, but what good has that done us?
Even if we make it out alive and try to start fresh in some country...
It could never happen!
First of all, without Griffith, we're just sheep without a shepherd.
We can't accomplish a thing.
What are you talking about?
It's obvious we need him, but that's why we're all trying to rescue him!
Can you prove that Griffith is even still alive?
Who knows. It might be over...
All over for him...
Then why are you here, Corkus?
Why didn't you leave with the deserters?
Rickert...
I wish he was here for us...
What is it?
Enemy raid!
The enemy is in the north woods!
Third company, fourth company, counterattack!
All others, get the injured on carriages and ride to the southern quarter!
Casca!
I have you!
Stay alert, Captain.
Guts...
Looking back, the morning comes.
Don't find your face in your glass.
Take the moonlight by the tail.
It's a rainy sight. You're shading.
What is that?
It's just the same.
What is trying your crown?
I'm spending my glass, walking back.
So wear my glass. You're fading.
I'm waiting so long.
I'm waiting...
Next Episode
Unless man loses a precious thing, he will never know its true value.
When he is utterly weary, and the path to his dream has been crushed...
...it is then that a dim light pierces the darkness.
Why can man not live in bliss unless he embraces his wounded heart?
Confession